now the famine was severe in the land
and it came to pass when they had eaten
up the grain which they had brought from
Egypt that their father said to them go
back buy us a little food but Judah
spoke to him the man solemnly warned us
saying you shall not see my face unless
your brother is with you if you send our
brother with us we will go down and buy
you food but if you will not send him we
will not go down for the man said to us
you shall not see my face unless your
brother is with you
why did you deal so wrongfully with me
as to tell the man whether you had still
another brother the man asked us
pointedly about ourselves and our family
saying is your father still alive have
you another brother and we told him
according to these words could we
possibly have known that he would say
bring your brother down then Judah said
to Israel his father
send the lad with me and we will arise
and go that we may live and not die
both we and you and also our little ones
I myself will be surety for him
from my hand you shall require him if I
do not bring him back to you and set him
before you then let me bear the blame
forever for if we had not lingered
surely by now we would have returned the
second time if it must be so then do
this take some of the best fruits of the
land and your vessels and carry down a
present for the man a little balm and a
little honey spices and myrrh pistachio
nuts and almonds take double money in
your hand and take back in your hand the
money that was returned at the mouth of
your sacks perhaps it was an oversight
take your brother also and arise go back
to the man and may God Almighty give you
mercy before the man that he may release
your other brother and Benjamin if I am
bereaved
I am bereaved so the man took that
present and Benjamin and they took
double money in their hand and arose and
went down to Egypt and they stood before
Joseph when Joseph saw Benjamin with
them he said to the steward of his house
take these men to my home and slaughter
an animal and make ready for these men
will dine with me at noon then the man
did as Joseph ordered and the man
brought the men into Joseph's house
now the men were afraid because they
were brought into Joseph's house it is
because of the money which was returned
in our sacks the first time that we are
brought in so that he may make a case
against us and seize us to take us as
slaves with our donkeys when they drew
near to the steward of Joseph's house
they talked with him at the door of the
house Osler we indeed came down the
first time to buy food but it happened
when we came to the encampment that we
opened our sacks and there each man's
money was in the mouths of his sack our
money in full weight so we have brought
it back in our hand and we have brought
down other money in our hands to buy
food we do not know who put our money in
our sacks peace be with you
do not be afraid your God and the god of
your father has given you treasure in
your sex I had your money then he
brought simeon out to them so the man
brought the men into Joseph's house and
gave them water and they washed their
feet and he gave their donkeys feed then
they made the present ready for Joseph's
coming at noon for they heard that they
would eat bread there and when Joseph
came home they brought him the present
which was in their hand into the house
and bowed down before him to the earth
then he asked them about their well
being is your father well the old man of
whom you spoke is he still alive
your servant our father is in good
health
he is still alive and they bowed their
heads down and frustrated themselves
then he lifted his eyes and saw his
brother Benjamin his mother's son is
this your younger brother of whom you
spoke to me God be gracious to you my
son now his heart yearned for his
brother
so Joseph made haste and sought
somewhere to
and he went into his chamber and wept
there and he washed his face and came
out and he restrained himself serve the
bread so they set him a place by himself
and then by themselves and the Egyptians
who ate with him by themselves because
the Egyptians could not eat food with
the Hebrews for that is an abomination
to the Egyptians and they sat before him
the firstborn according to his
birthright and the youngest according to
his youth and the men looked in
astonishment at one another
then he took servings to them from
before him but Benjamin's serving was
five times as much as any of theirs so
they drank and will marry with him